{
    "title": "What Is Seen and What Is Not Seen",
    "authors": ["Frederic Bastiat"],
    "publishdate": "1850-11-09",
    "tags": ["Economics"]
}

In the economic sphere an act, a habit, an institution, a law produces
not only one effect, but a series of effects. Of these effects, the
first alone is immediate; it appears simultaneously with its cause; it
is seen. The other effects emerge only subsequently; they are not
seen; we are fortunate if we foresee them.

 

There is only one difference between a bad economist and a good one:
the bad economist confines himself to the visible effect; the good
economist takes into account both the effect that can be seen and
those effects that must be foreseen.

 

Yet this difference is tremendous; for it almost always happens that
when the immediate consequence is favorable, the later consequences
are disastrous, and vice versa. Whence it follows that the bad
economist pursues a small present good that will be followed by a
great evil to come, while the good economist pursues a great good to
come, at the risk of a small present evil.

 

The same thing, of course, is true of health and morals. Often, the
sweeter the first fruit of a habit, the more bitter are its later
fruits: for example, debauchery, sloth, prodigality. When a man is
impressed by the effect that is seen and has not yet learned to
discern the effects that are not seen, he indulges in deplorable
habits, not only through natural inclination, but deliberately.

 

This explains manâ€™s necessarily painful evolution. Ignorance surrounds
him at his cradle; therefore, he regulates his acts according to their
first consequences, the only ones that, in his infancy, he can see. It
is only after a long time that he learns to take account of the
others. xoTwo very different masters teach him this lesson:
experience and foresight. Experience teaches efficaciously but
brutally. It instructs us in all the effects of an act by making us
feel them, and we cannot fail to learn eventually, from having been
burned ourselves, that fire burns. I should prefer, in so far as
possible, to replace this rude teacher with one more gentle:
foresight. For that reason I shall investigate the consequences of
several economic phenomena, contrasting those that are seen with those
that are not seen.


